---
layout: post
title:  "J2SE 8 Impatient"
date: 2015-12-15 23:11:27
categories: Java 8, Lambda
---

## Word at the begining
Recently, i read a few books about Java 8. 

- __Java SE 8 - for the really impatient__ 
- __Java 8 Lambda: Pramatic Functional Programming from Richard Warburton__

For better understanding and utilizing the power of Java 8, i need to practices. Part of learning is write document for myself, which it is good and efficient way to review my learning progress. If i can write it clearly, which means i am now understand it very well already.

## Java Generic
Before diving into the new features of Java 8, i have to review _Java Generic_ first. The reason is Java 8 new library arounding _Lambda, Stream_ are all heavily depending on _Java Generic_ .



## Lambda Expression

- Lambda Express's 3 ingredients
	- Block of code
	- Parameters
	- Free variables


## Stream

- Stream does not store its elements
- Stream operations don't mutate their source
- Stream operations are lazy when possible.



### Work with stream
- Create a stream
- Specify intermediate operations for transforming the initial stream into another, in one or more steps.
- Apply a terminal operation to produce a result. This force the execution of lazy operations that precede it. Afterwards, the stream can no longer be used.


### Stream Creations

```java
//finite stream

Stream<String> words = Stream.of("a", "b", "c");
Stream<String> words = Stream.of(contents.split("[\\P{L}]+"));

//infinite stream
Stream<String> echos = Stream.generate(() -> "Echo") ;

Stream<BigInteger> integers = Stream.iterate(BigInteger.ZERO, n -> n.add(Integer.ONE));

```

The __Stream__ interface has __AutoClosable__ as a superinterface. Whe __close__ method is called on the stream, the underlying file is also closed.

```java
try (Stream<String> lines = Files.lines(path)) {
	// TO-DO
}
```

### Stream transformation

```java

//stateful transformation
Stream<String> longestFilter = words.sorted(Comparator.comparing(String::length).reversed());

```

### Terminal operations 

- Reduction : reduce the stream to a value that can be used in your application, ex: count, max, min


- Optional

```java

optionalValue.isPresent(v -> Process v);

```

- Collection

```java
//supplier, accumulator, combiner
String[] resutls = stream.collect(HashSet::new, HashSet::add, HashSet::addAll);

List<String> result = stream.collect(Collectors.toList());
```


- Grouping and Partitioning


## New Date and Time API

### Core Class
__Instant__, __Duration__

__java.time.*__

```java



```
## Reference

